Activations are Litgrid activated energy used to balance the system (to counter the imbalance). Train an imbalance and mFRR activations prediction models:
1. Calculate forecast deltas for meteorological columns.
        Calculations and data cleansing can be found in first_task.ipynb 

2. Train and evaluate a prediction model for imbalance and mFRR activations. Which can you forecast more accurately? Can we use imbalance as a predictor for activations?
    Prediction model can be found in model_XGBoost.ipynb file (I've firstly tried to build linear regression mod(kept it as model_LR_test.ipynb), however the model was poorly performing). Considering the highest R² value of approx. 0.76 and lowest RMSE value - approx. 6.6, 'LT_mfrr_SA_down_activ' can be predicted most accuratelly. 
    Even though adding imbalance as a feature improves all 'LT_mfrr_SA_up_activ' and 'LT_mfrr_SA_down_activ' prediction results, using this variable as it is would not be recommended, as this piece of data can be acquired only after the real-world observation.

3. Assume we know actual values of activations 30 minutes after timestep ends, for example, at 12:00 we know value of 11:15. what autoregressive timeseries forecasting method works well for this timeseries? How does forecasting this way compare to your previous model in terms of accuracy?
    In such situation ARIMA model could be a primary option, however, given composition of my data I've decided to include activators lag predictors. Predictions with all targets improved, most noticible improvement can be seen with upwards activation with R² increasing from 0.76 to 0.83. Additionally, with all predictions at least one of lag predictors landed among top 1-2 positions in the XGBoost feature importance graphs. Considering the above, conclusion that recent past values of activations would be an important predictors 

4. What tendencies do you see in imbalance volumes? For example, imbalance is positive for some hours, or happens almost certainly under some weather conditions? 
    Average imbalance volume overall is positive. Average imbalance by hour shows that there is significant dip - from around 8 drop to 2 during 6:00 - 7:00 hour window. Looking at the data from weekday perspective it is visible that Monday is the only day in the week where on average there is a negative disbalance. Biggest dips during Monday can be seen on hour 6, and 19, however, negative imbalance trend persists throughout the day. Friday is complete opposite. During this day most significant positive inbalance can be seen and the trend persists throughout the day time. 
    Weather data does cause significant impact on the trend of imbalance. Slight trend of more positive imbalance when temperature, direct irradiance and shortwave radiation are higher can be seen. This tendency is likely to grow with seasonally raising temperature and days getting longer. 